---
title: "Eternal Terminal"
date: 2021-01-25T12:43:51-05:00
draft: false
author: "Brent Stewart"
Victor_Hugo: "true"
Focus_Keyword: "Eternal Terminal"
picture: "shell"
github: ""
youtube: ""
refs: ["https://eternalterminal.dev/", "https://github.com/MisterTea/EternalTerminal"]
tags: ["ssh"]
---
Eternal Terminal acts like ssh - you start a console session on a remote device by typing __et username@host__ and it connects.  ET adds to ssh by allowing reconnects.

A lot of ssh sessions are short affairs - login, put in a few commands, get some output, logout.  If the session is interrupted it's not a big deal.  Occassionally, however, it's important to stay connected for a period of time.

In a past life, I used to have to run reports against a database at the data center.  The script I used took a while and any interruption meant starting over.  Eternal Terminal wasn't around at that time, so I solved the problem by deploying a jump server and I could connect to it using x2go and start the session from there.  I could disconnect and reattach later

That solution required a dedicated VM, which requires some money.  It wasn't a bad solution, but it didn't really address the underlying problem.

With et (Eternal Terminal), a disconnected session is maintained.  The server continues processing and the client can continue to accept keyboard input.  When the connection is re-established, the environment is still in place.  Frankly, for day-to-day use you won't see much difference between et and a normal SSH session.  If you have workflows that require long-duration connectivity, this could be a great tool.

Et uses SSH for the initial connection and to exchange keys.  Authentication is handled by SSH.  Once the session is established, et sets up a console.

## Installing and Using

To use et, both the client and server must have it installed.  Eternal Terminal can be installed on Ubuntu from the archives:
> sudo apt install et

Usage is just like ssh, except that if a username is not specified it is assumed to be the same as the client.
> et brent@10.1.1.100

Eternal Terminal survives roaming, rebooting, and disconnection.  A simple way to try it out is to disconnect your network card and reconnect.