---
title: "Turning off Evolution Alarm Notify"
description: ""
author: "Brent Stewart"
date: "2024-03-24T16:35:20-04:00"

math: false
draft: false
Victor_Hugo: "true"
picture: "linux"
Focus_Keyword: "Evolution Alarm Notify"
youtube: ""
github: ""
refs: [""]
tags:
  - "linux"
---
# Ridding Yourself of Annoying Calendar Pop-ups on Linux
Gnome will prompt for email accounts, and then tie in alerts from your calendar.  These come in as pop-up windows.  If you liked these in Outlook, you'll be pleased with the Linux implementation.

I didn't like these reminders in Outlook.  I feel that too many programs are competing for my attention and that pop-ups in general are a drain on my concentration.  I understand the thought and I understand that it's useful for some, just not for me.

These days, I have a couple of 4k displays and really like tiling desktops (I'm currently using Ubuntu Gnome with the Forge extension).  These pop-ups are doubly annoying in this context because they occupy a slice of screen and completely disrupt what I'm working with.

## What doesn't work
Uninstalling Evolution doesn't work.  

The next obvious solution would be to turn off the notifications.  In Gnome, opening the control panel shows a _notifications_ tab where you can turn OFF Evolution Alarm Notify.

This doesn't work. The reminders keep popping up.  This is a [bug](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-control-center/-/issues/295) that goes back several years.

Removing the calendar file used by Evolution Alarm Nofiy does not work.  In the past, EAN would simply re-create the file at next boot.  That bug seems to be fixed and I've verified that the calendar file is NOT recreated, however EAN is still popping up.

    rm ~/.local/share/evolution/calendar/system/calendar.ics 

## What seems to work (April '24)

Add the following line to /etc/xdg/autostart/org.gnome.Evolution-alarm-notify.desktop:

    NotShowIn=Gnome;